Add FIDO biometric authentication as a use case (#139)
ietf-rats-wg/architecture: draft-ietf-rats-architecture.md

    author:
      org: "Trusted Computing Group"
    target: "https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TPM2_r1p62_Part1_Architecture_7july2020.pdf"
  WebAuthN:
    title: Web Authentication: An API for accessing Public Key Credentials

>     author: The W3C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    author: W3C
```
(copyright statement in linked document just says "W3C", with no "The")

    target: https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-1/ 
  CTAP:
    title: Client to Authenticator Protocol

>     author: The FIDO Alliance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    author: FIDO Alliance
```
(The copyright at the bottom of the linked URL just says "FIDO Alliance", no "The" in front)

: A remote server that will securely grant the Attester
permission to continue operating (i.e., not reboot) for a period of time

## FIDO Biometric Authentication

> In the FIDO protocol, it is the device in the user’s hand that authenticates the human user by biometrics like fingerprints or PIN and password.

Reviewer: (simplify grammar)
```suggestion
In the Fast IDentity Online (FIDO) protocol, the device in the user’s hand authenticates the human user by biometrics such as fingerprints or PIN and password.
```

Also can we add a citation for the protocol?

Reviewer 2: Fine with the change. I think that this is *the* most important value add of FIDO: the Authenticator component that can require a human to be in the loop.

> The comparison of the input from the user to the reference or expected values is done by the device, often a mobile phone, not the relying party.

Reviewer: So the device is a verifier?  (not sure why "not the relying party" is in the sentence)

Reviewer 2: The Authenticator is a component of the Attester, isn't it? It is used (in the weakest sense) for evidence generation, I think.

Author: The device verifies biometric input locally. Nothing to do with verifying attestation evidence. Hopefully recent commit addresses this.

> For the relying party to know that the authentication is trustworthy the relying party needs to know that the authenticator part of the device is trustworthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the relying party to know that the authentication is trustworthy, the relying party needs to know that the authenticator part of the device is trustworthy.
```

> The FIDO protocol employs attestation for this. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The FIDO protocol employs evidence generation for this. 
```

Reviewer 2: I know... that is already standard lingo, but I really think that Attestation is too confusing and does not add meaning here.

Author: The FIDO protocol does employ attestation. The FIDO protocol defines an attestation protocol of its own. It also can use other attestation protocols.

Conceptually, a FIDO authenticator first runs an attestation protocol to prove itself trustworthy to the relying party (no separation of Verifier and RP in FIDO). Second, it authenticates the user and tells the RP the result. When it is telling the RP the result, it is not running an attestation protocol.

Reviewer: Laurence's explanation makes sense to me, I am fine with "remote attestation" in this sentence (but add "remote").

> The FIDO protocol supports several attestation protocols and a mechanism by which new ones can be registered and added. Attestation defined by RATS is thus a candidate for use by FIDO. 

Reviewer: meaning, for use by the FIDO protocol?  or for use by the FIDO Alliance?

Author: protocol; addressed in recent commit.

> Other biometric authentication protocols such as the Chinese IFAA standard and WeChat Pay as well as Google Pay make use of attestation in one form or another.

Reviewer: Can we add citations to these protocols if we keep this sentence?

Author: I added references for FIDO.

There aren't protocol documents in English for IFAA and WeChat Pay, but there are fluffy marketing overviews. So far citations for the other use cases haven't been required, so this seems OK.

Reviewer: Agreed, thanks for checking.

Attester: 

> :The FIDO Authenticator.

Reviewer: "authenticator" was lower case in 323. Pick one.

Reviewer 2: I do not think hat the Authenticator component alone is the Attester here. It provides strong Authentication to be used in Evidence generated by the device though.

: A remote server that will securely grant the Attester
permission to continue operating (i.e., not reboot) for a period of time

## FIDO Biometric Authentication

In the Fast IDentity Online (FIDO) protocol {{WebAuthN}}, {{CTAP}}, the device in the user’s hand authenticates the human user, whether by biometrics (such as fingerprints), or by PIN and password.
FIDO authentication puts a large amount of trust in the device compared to typical password authentication because it is the device that verifies the biometric, PIN and password inputs from the user, not the server.

> For the relying party to know that the authentication is trustworthy, the relying party needs to know that the Authenticator part of the device is trustworthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Relying Party to know that the authentication is trustworthy, the Relying Party needs to know that the Authenticator part of the device is trustworthy.
```

The FIDO protocol employs attestation for this. 

> The FIDO protocol supports several attestation protocols and a mechanism by which new ones can be registered and added. Attestation defined by RATS is thus a candidate for use in the FIDO protocol. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FIDO protocol supports several remote attestation protocols and a mechanism by which new ones can be registered and added. Remote attestation defined by RATS is thus a candidate for use in the FIDO protocol. 
```
